[Music]
for dogs too getting out on a boat
excites their wild senses and for such
intelligent animals you can't beat a
rule trail while we are obsessed with
visual landmarks they focus only on
scents we have a measly 6 million smell
receptors but a dog's nose contains 300
[Music]
they use it to unravel stories about the
world around the bush predictably most
are about food
[Music]
forty times more of their brain than
ours is diluted to deciphering smells
[Music]
the men are those with special
significance
the single chemical aldehyde found in
blood makes this one time hunter drool
there is a way to bring their smelly
world to life shiron photography
visualizes the ear currents that carry
orders and shows the remarkable workings
of a dog's nose dogs breathe out through
the side slits in their nostrils
[Music]
as the expelled air rotates it helps
draw more sand into the news this
two-week current helps a dog gather sand
almost continuously but that's not all a
[Music]
meal can smell a female in heat at
concentrations of one part in a tree
[Music]
licking helps capture more of her
alluring sin his tongue takes the order
to a second smell organ in the mouth
hardwired to the brain and tuned to
these sexual pheromones
[Music]
it's love at first Smith
for dogs being a passenger rivals any
wild experience it can be tinged with
disappointment
[Music]
the streets of Paris may be full of
romantic Palmas but pet dogs are seldom
in control of their destiny
love may be in the air but it's so
rarely fulfilled
[Music]